# freebikefinder

1. **Scope:** Access to reliable transportation is an issue affecting many individuals. Owning a car is costly and access to public transportation requires money and proximity access points. According to the American Public Transporation Association, 45% of Americans have no access to public transportation. According the 2020 census data, over 11% (over 37 million) of US citizens are living in poverty.
2. **Impact:** Without access to reliable transportation, it is difficult to get to important appointements (health, career, education), access publicly available assets (public transportation, libraries, parks, housing / shelter, meals), and to get valuable exercise. Additionally, finding a bike shop who will accept a bike donation can feel like a hassle when it requires searching and contacting bike shops.
3. **Causes:** There is no centralized website to discover free bike or bike donation options in a community. Individuals are left to guess at likely Google search queries ("where can I get a free bike") or check all bike shops discovered through a Google Maps search. The process is slow and depends on luck or internet research skills.
4. **Other solutions:** Search engines and maps applications. In both cases, search results are littered with bike shops that do not offer free bike options and do not accept donations. A lot of wasted time can be spent checking the results shop by shop. Additionally, know the best search query can be tricky ("bike collective" or "nonprofit bike shop", for example). Bikes can always be donated to community resources like Goodwill or The Salvation Army, but such options lack the necessary resources to ensure the bike is functioning well and has been reviewed for safety and long-term reliability. Moreover, bike shops are better suited to offer safety instructions, set the bike up for the rider, teach the rider about basic maintenance, and provide necessary safety equipment.
